# `token`

Welcome to your new `token` project and to the Internet Computer development community. By default, creating a new project adds this README and some template files to your project directory. You can edit these template files to customize your project and to include your own code to speed up the development cycle.

To get started, you might want to explore the project directory structure and the default configuration file. Working with this project in your development environment will not affect any production deployment or identity tokens.

To learn more before you start working with `token`, see the following documentation available online:

- [Quick Start](https://internetcomputer.org/docs/current/developer-docs/setup/deploy-locally)
- [SDK Developer Tools](https://internetcomputer.org/docs/current/developer-docs/setup/install)
- [Motoko Programming Language Guide](https://internetcomputer.org/docs/current/motoko/main/motoko)
- [Motoko Language Quick Reference](https://internetcomputer.org/docs/current/motoko/main/language-manual)

If you want to start working on your project right away, you might want to try the following commands:

```bash
cd token/
dfx help
dfx canister --help
```

## Running the project locally

If you want to test your project locally, you can use the following commands:

First of all replace the `Config.MY_PRINCIPAL` in `main.mo` with your own Principal ID by,

```bash
# Returns your principal id
dfx identity get-principal
```

```bash
# Starts the replica, running in the background
dfx start --background

# Installs all the required node modules
npm install

# Deploys your canisters to the replica and generates your candid interface
dfx deploy
```
once you deployed the canisters you should initialize them by calling the transfer function on `main.mo`. Using the following commands,

storing the canister id on a variable.

```bash
CANISTER_PUBLIC_KEY="principal \"$( \dfx canister id token_backend )\""
```

transferring half a billion tokens to the canister using transfer function on `main.mo`.

```bash
dfx canister call token_backend transfer "($CANISTER_PUBLIC_KEY, 500_000_000)"
```

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


If you want to deploy your canister online on Internet Computer:

To deploy the canister on Internet Computer
```bash
dfx deploy --network ic
```

Store the live canister ID to a varaiable

```bash
LIVE_CANISTER_KEY="principal \"$( \dfx canister --network ic id token_backend )\""
```

To transfer tokens to live canister:

```bash
dfx canister --network ic call token_backend transfer "($LIVE_CANISTER_KEY, 500_000_000)"
```

Get live canister front-end id:

```bash
dfx canister --network ic id token_frontend
```

Copy the id and add `.raw.ic0.app` in the end to form a URL. Paste the URL on a search engine to get the live canister on your web browser.


If you have made changes to your backend canister, you can generate a new candid interface with 

```bash
npm run generate
```

at any time. This is recommended before starting the frontend development server, and will be run automatically any time you run `dfx deploy`.

If you are making frontend changes, you can start a development server with

```bash
npm start
```

### Note on frontend environment variables

If you are hosting frontend code somewhere without using DFX, you may need to make one of the following adjustments to ensure your project does not fetch the root key in production:

- set`DFX_NETWORK` to `ic` if you are using Webpack
- use your own preferred method to replace `process.env.DFX_NETWORK` in the autogenerated declarations
  - Setting `canisters -> {asset_canister_id} -> declarations -> env_override to a string` in `dfx.json` will replace `process.env.DFX_NETWORK` with the string in the autogenerated declarations
- Write your own `createActor` constructor
